### Node JS

#### What is Node?
[Node](https://nodejs.org/en/about/) is a As an asynchronous event driven JavaScript runtime, Node is designed to build scalable network applications.  But that's not super helpful it's just more questions:

-  What does Asynchronous mean?
[Async Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchrony_(computer_programming)) These are events that are independent of the main program flow, the operate on a different although concurrent time stream.
	 
-  What does event driven mean?
[Event Driven Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchrony_(computer_programming)) determined by events such as user actions (mouse clicks, key presses), sensor outputs, or messages from other programs/threads

-  What does runtime mean?
[Runtime SO/Wikipedia](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3900549/what-is-runtime) In computer programming, a runtime library is a special program library used by a compiler, to implement functions built into a programming language, during the runtime (execution) of a computer program. This often includes functions for input and output, or for memory management.

**With That we can do a little mashup -> **

A special program library used by a compiler to implement functions built into a programming language during the runtime (execution) of a computer program.  This particular library is driven by events such as user actions (mouse clicks, key presses), sensor outputs, or messages from other programs/threads which may be run independent of the main program flow.

#### Why Use Node?
- You can run JavaScript
-  You can access NPM
  - Huge repository of open source libraries
- Server side instead of client side


